Caption: hello hello welcome back I'm seeing some
Caption: familiar faces as well so yeah welcome
Caption: back uh it's my delight to introduce uh
Caption: doctor isn't it right Dr Ashley Aitkin
Caption: Ashley Aitkin has a passion for helping
Caption: businesses create value with it helping
Caption: startups find successful business models
Caption: and all things related to AI minds and
Caption: brains today he's going to explain what
Caption: it means to say we are all computers and
Caption: the implications this may have for
Caption: building conscious machines buckle up
Caption: it's going to be a wild ride here's
Caption: Ashley wonderful
Caption: thank you very much Hannah and thank you
Caption: much everyone for coming along as you
Caption: said my talk today I'm a computer and so
Caption: are you and my goal here is really
Caption: trying to to convince you of the
Caption: validity of this statement okay but
Caption: after we've done that we'll have a look
Caption: at some more bigger questions which I
Caption: don't have the answer to but I think you
Caption: might find uh interesting as well
Caption: so I'm a computer and so are you
Caption: let's go on
Caption: um
Caption: this all started many years ago when I
Caption: was doing a PhD in Ai and I was trying
Caption: to make computers work more like humans
Caption: be more able to match the world and and
Caption: work in a fuzzy World in a wishing world
Caption: but after doing my PhD for a number of
Caption: years I realized really it wasn't about
Caption: that it came back to me thinking that
Caption: computers are actually more like oh
Caption: sorry the brain is mostly more like
Caption: computers and this really shocked me I
Caption: got a total flip of what I'm doing
Caption: that's what I want to try and explain to
Caption: you today
Caption: but just to be clear up front when I say
Caption: is a brain is more like a computer I I
Caption: don't mean a Von Neumann type
Caption: architecture avoid Norman type
Caption: architecture with a CPU and RAM of
Caption: course we're not like that and one of
Caption: the things I want to talk about today is
Caption: what actually it is it to be a computer
Caption: I did computer science for many years I
Caption: worked with an academic in computer
Caption: science for many years and I'll tell you
Caption: the 95 percent of people in that domain
Caption: probably don't know what it means to be
Caption: a computer it's something you program
Caption: for sure but what does it mean to be a
Caption: computer that's what we'd be talking
Caption: about as well
Caption: so here's the sort of overview of the
Caption: story for my talk the first big question
Caption: is what are computers to get you to
Caption: understand that question the second one
Caption: is what am I and by contrast you because
Caption: you're similar to me hopefully
Caption: and then last one the big question there
Caption: what is I
Caption: that's the one which I may not be able
Caption: to answer but we'll get a good start on
Caption: I think
Caption: um a bit background about myself I work
Caption: as an I.T consultant for a company
Caption: called business aspect a parent company
Caption: data number three I have a background in
Caption: AI cognitive science and Neuroscience
Caption: but I think of myself as a software
Caption: developer and an I.T person and a
Caption: computer scientist I have a big focus on
Caption: Innovation Consulting I like to help
Caption: because I think Hannah said startups but
Caption: also organizations in any sector any
Caption: stage of maturity including startups to
Caption: find new businesses if the old
Caption: businesses are going away to find a new
Caption: one and we do that using an exploration
Caption: metaphor
Caption: I also run Lean Startup Perth Meetup
Caption: and I have a number of number of
Caption: startups myself the current one which is
Caption: just about to go live soon is called
Caption: lean Explorers Club so please look out
Caption: for that
Caption: okay so also thanks to our sponsors and
Caption: the volunteers who run this conference
Caption: particularly I met some at the cat's
Caption: feature catch-up night insight and
Caption: Versant and Planet so thanks to them but
Caption: thanks to all the sponsors who helped
Caption: this make this event possible
Caption: okay um in this same room a couple of
Caption: years ago I gave a talk on functional
Caption: programming and my goal there was to
Caption: make everyone's mind explode blow their
Caption: brains with the oils quantum computers
Caption: sorry blow their minds with quantum
Caption: computers last year I tried to help
Caption: people become anti-fragile and when you
Caption: lose your head to grow back two new ones
Caption: to replace that one head
Caption: this year I'm taking a bit of a
Caption: different tack now as I mentioned in the
Caption: brief I'm going to be trying out some
Caption: pain okay so experience something pain
Caption: but also try and some mind altering
Caption: experiences here trying to get you to
Caption: think differently about your mind so
Caption: let's see how we go with that
Caption: okay so the first point here what are
Caption: computers think to yourself what do I
Caption: what's you know it's a digital computer
Caption: I program it but what do we mean when we
Caption: talk about computers
Caption: this sort of thing okay a computer what
Caption: do we mean by that now maybe if you sort
Caption: of got a computer science background or
Caption: a technical background you may think oh
Caption: well computers are equivalent to Turing
Caption: machines or they have a Von Neumann
Caption: architecture and so forth there's
Caption: something which is runs like this or you
Caption: may also think you know a computer
Caption: computability can I calculate something
Caption: with this computer or compute something
Caption: with an algorithm you may think about
Caption: algorithms and you may think about oh
Caption: yeah computers do calculations these
Caption: sort of things and these are all correct
Caption: but they don't get to what the essence
Caption: is of a computer and that's what I want
Caption: to try and to explain now this slide has
Caption: a lot of text so it's the formal
Caption: definition of things but I'll just point
Caption: out the key points to you I'll read it
Caption: out to you it has a computational system
Caption: is a physical system that allows three
Caption: specific but more General levels of
Caption: description
Caption: above that of the physical level and
Caption: these three levels are what we call the
Caption: functional level the symbolic level and
Caption: the semantic level you may have heard of
Caption: those there are a couple extra
Caption: requirements the symbolic states in the
Caption: symbolic level they refer to things so
Caption: when your computer has a symbol for a
Caption: car it's not actually the car inside the
Caption: computer it's a reference to that car
Caption: and the third one says that the symbols
Caption: need to be consistent under
Caption: transformations
Caption: that's the definition of a computational
Caption: system
Caption: and I want to explain that to you so you
Caption: can see what computers really are and
Caption: then we'll look at how the brain works
Caption: so of course the computer's a physical
Caption: system so any physical system we can
Caption: give a description in terms of the
Caption: physical states where the particles are
Caption: and which direction they're moving
Caption: and of course they obey the physical
Caption: laws so the particle is going to go
Caption: around ignoring Quantum Mechanics for
Caption: now they're going to move around like
Caption: particles do and bump bump into things
Caption: and so forth
Caption: we can't break the physical laws but we
Caption: can change the configuration of the
Caption: system to make it do things while still
Caption: obeying those physical laws
Caption: so we have this physical level
Caption: description
Caption: we start off in a physical state on the
Caption: left our initial State we go to the next
Caption: state according to the physical Lords
Caption: the physical laws tell us how we go from
Caption: one state to the next and so on and so
Caption: on
Caption: that's pretty obvious
Caption: but now what we say that one thing that
Caption: a computational system allows is it
Caption: allows a higher level description
Caption: we don't need to talk about the
Caption: particles anymore when you describe your
Caption: computer you don't say well these are
Caption: particles here and particles moving
Caption: there
Caption: when you describe a computer in the
Caption: functional description you describe it
Caption: in terms of functional States
Caption: and the functional specification or
Caption: configuration of that system
Caption: these functional states are actually
Caption: defined in terms of equivalent sets of
Caption: physical States and this is a really
Caption: important concept we're going to a
Caption: higher level description ignoring the
Caption: difference in certain physical States
Caption: and will describe it that way let me
Caption: show you in a picture
Caption: the first word before I show you that
Caption: we're looking at a very simplified model
Caption: of computing and so forth here which can
Caption: look at one input gives us a direct
Caption: output and I'll explain the complexity
Caption: later on so on the left we have the
Caption: input State and on the right we have the
Caption: output state
Caption: um input goes to Output very simple way
Caption: to understand things
Caption: so let's have a look at the next slide
Caption: sorry I lost my connection there what is
Caption: this functional description for a
Caption: computer
Caption: well as I say we ignore the position of
Caption: the atoms and then moving around in the
Caption: electrons and we tend to describe the
Caption: physical computer in terms of voltages
Caption: this memory chip this memory cell has a
Caption: voltage of 0.2 volts well this y has a
Caption: voltage
Caption: so this is another description of a
Caption: computer above the physical level in
Caption: terms of these voltages in the
Caption: particular memory cells for example
Caption: and of course
Caption: when you go from the input here a 0.2
Caption: volts you may go to another state 0.9
Caption: volts
Caption: but again that's just really an
Caption: abstraction over the lower level States
Caption: lots of different atoms running around
Caption: in different directions could make
Caption: equivalent to 0.9 volts
Caption: so the ones on the bottom are showing
Caption: you there's a whole lot of equivalent
Caption: physical states which correspond to 0.2
Caption: volts and there's a whole lot of
Caption: equivalent physical states which
Caption: correspond to 0.9 volts but we ignore
Caption: that detail and just look at the top
Caption: so when the system actually goes from
Caption: input to Output it could go from this
Caption: physical state to that physical state
Caption: inside the set or it could do a
Caption: different one or it could do a different
Caption: one we don't really care about that
Caption: detail we just care at the functional
Caption: level it goes from zero to two volts to
Caption: 0.9 volts that's a functional
Caption: description someone is interested in
Caption: electronics would probably look at that
Caption: sort of description
Caption: that's the functional description of a
Caption: computer
Caption: but where it gets interesting now is
Caption: when we step up one level to this
Caption: symbolic level description
Caption: in symbolic States and rules here we
Caption: have symbols which are referring to
Caption: things and rules which how they describe
Caption: how they change
Caption: so have a look again at our diagram now
Caption: we think of this computer as a symbol
Caption: system we have a symbolic state zero or
Caption: one and that's zero or one in memory
Caption: cells could be anything less than 0.5
Caption: volts so for 0.4 or 0.2 or 0.3 we don't
Caption: care we say it's a zero a false or a
Caption: zero bit
Caption: and going from input to outputs because
Caption: okay we go from zero to one there's a
Caption: rule if zero then one because it's wired
Caption: up in this way we don't care whether the
Caption: final state is 0.6 or 0.9 we ignore that
Caption: detail and just say it goes from a zero
Caption: to one so now we're thinking about bits
Caption: we're working at a symbolic level in
Caption: terms of symbolic States and the rules
Caption: which say how they transfer or change
Caption: so this is the symbol level and this is
Caption: the level we sort of program computers
Caption: at and we'll get back to that as I said
Caption: doesn't matter the states below we don't
Caption: care about the details of course it is
Caption: going from one physical state to the
Caption: next but we just treat them as
Caption: equivalent at this symbolic level
Caption: now the last level is the semantic level
Caption: this is the highest level where we talk
Caption: about semantic States and principles of
Caption: operation so we had physical laws we
Caption: have rules and now we have principles of
Caption: operation semantic states are similarly
Caption: defined in sets of equivalent states of
Caption: equivalent symbolic States and the
Caption: principles describe how you go from one
Caption: semantic state to another semantic state
Caption: this shows you in a computer at the top
Caption: there we have this semantic level now we
Caption: represent the symbols Below in quotes
Caption: but how do you sort of represent a
Caption: semantic State we sort of put them in
Caption: Brackets
Caption: so on the left for the input State we
Caption: have four plus two
Caption: but that's equivalent to a number of
Caption: different symbolic States we could be in
Caption: it could be in four plus two or three
Caption: plus three it doesn't matter what those
Caption: symbols are they're all equivalent to
Caption: the concept of four plus two
Caption: and when you use that four plus two
Caption: semantic state it goes to the semantic
Caption: state of six
Caption: and that could be represented in
Caption: different ways as well it could be the
Caption: number six or it could be written word
Caption: six we don't care
Caption: so again we've gone to a higher level of
Caption: description which is more easier to
Caption: understand and more useful the semantic
Caption: level the semantic level is also called
Caption: the knowledge level
Caption: so and again we go at that symbolic
Caption: level still there it's not gone away we
Caption: can go from different symbolic States
Caption: but we ignore that and just say we go
Caption: from the four plus two to the sixth
Caption: state
Caption: so this is what competition
Caption: computational systems are a physical
Caption: system with three levels of abstraction
Caption: above that physical level
Caption: going from functional states to symbolic
Caption: states with rules to semantic states
Caption: with principles of operations
Caption: and computers are computational systems
Caption: as I've shown they have these three
Caption: levels of description and the symbols
Caption: can refer to things and the symbols can
Caption: be consistent so computers are
Caption: computational systems and that's what we
Caption: mean what is a computer it's a
Caption: computational system
Caption: so why are the computational systems as
Caption: I mentioned they have these three
Caption: different levels the functional level
Caption: with the voltages and the functional
Caption: specification the symbolic level with
Caption: the symbols and the rules of behavior
Caption: sort of like the code and the semantic
Caption: level with the concepts and the
Caption: principles
Caption: now the nice thing about this is these
Caption: higher levels of description can ignore
Caption: the lower level details and you get much
Caption: more value from a higher level if I told
Caption: you know all the atoms in this thing
Caption: were this organized you couldn't tell me
Caption: much about the thing but if I told you a
Caption: higher level description it's more
Caption: useful to you and this is why we do the
Caption: levels of abstraction
Caption: now computers aren't the only things
Caption: that are computational systems of course
Caption: a calculator it's almost like a computer
Caption: but even a physical calculator like this
Caption: is a computational system it's just got
Caption: a different implementation it's not
Caption: implemented in terms of electronics it's
Caption: basically implemented in terms of
Caption: mechanical States and mechanical
Caption: configuration
Caption: but we abstract over those mechanical
Caption: case states to say there's a symbol if
Caption: the button's up this high or above this
Caption: level then it's a one-off is down below
Caption: this level it's a zero or so forth so we
Caption: can Implement a computational system in
Caption: a mechanical system as well
Caption: and this gives us a good uh
Caption: hint that possibly we can implement the
Caption: brain in a non-biological system because
Caption: we're abstracting above that biolog
Caption: biology to the functional to the
Caption: symbolic and into semantic levels
Caption: and again you know a calculator the
Caption: semantics are pretty clear that the
Caption: semantics of a calculator are the number
Caption: States we don't care how the numbers
Caption: represented in the calculator whether
Caption: it's buttons or number or a screen and
Caption: the principles of operations for a
Caption: calculator are mathematics
Caption: the ad operation the minus operation the
Caption: multiply operation and the symbols need
Caption: to be constructed to obey those
Caption: particular semantics to build a
Caption: functional calculator
Caption: so we have lots of different
Caption: computational systems calculators
Caption: computers and others
Caption: but the big question now is to ask what
Caption: am I and what are you and I want to make
Caption: the claim that we're a computational
Caption: system as well and try and explain that
Caption: now when I'm starting here I'm starting
Caption: from certain assumptions which you may
Caption: disagree with but these are my
Caption: assumptions my assumption is that
Caption: basically we're a biological information
Caption: processing system
Caption: we don't have electrons running around
Caption: in our brain and our neurons we have
Caption: ions running around doing some similar
Caption: stuff but basically it's a wiring system
Caption: to make our information processing
Caption: happen
Caption: so we're not shoeing there's any sort of
Caption: ghost in the machine or souls or Spirits
Caption: we're saying everything about us needs
Caption: to be explained in terms of this
Caption: biological information processing system
Caption: and we want to try and do that now
Caption: so of course here's a physical system my
Caption: son we can describe him in a physical
Caption: state and physical laws
Caption: now we're not interested in the whole
Caption: body we're interested in just the brain
Caption: so we can have a physical level
Caption: description of the brain it's physical
Caption: States and physical laws that say how
Caption: those States will change because of
Caption: course the brain operates under the
Caption: physical laws it can't break those laws
Caption: but we want to have a look inside that
Caption: and say hey what's inside the brain well
Caption: there's these neuron things like the
Caption: wiring and basically if you don't know
Caption: about it they have connections at the
Caption: end where other neurons connect to they
Caption: add up all the symbols coming in if it
Caption: goes over a certain threshold then your
Caption: neuron sends out a signal if it doesn't
Caption: it stays pretty quiet
Caption: so this is the sort of mathematical
Caption: equation on the right but that's how
Caption: neurons look like inside our brain there
Caption: are apparently 80 billion neurons
Caption: it's down on we used to think it was a
Caption: hundred billion but they did some more
Caption: studies and we've got 20 billion less
Caption: but it doesn't make us any less smart we
Caption: can still do a lot with 80 billion
Caption: it's a complex network of these neurons
Caption: in the brain
Caption: so how do we look at this in terms of
Caption: computational systems
Caption: the first thing is of course that
Caption: physical level description I mentioned
Caption: physical States and physical laws the
Caption: brain obeys physics can't not obey
Caption: physics
Caption: and it goes from state to state but now
Caption: when it gets interesting we talk about
Caption: the functional level description of the
Caption: brain so we're going to abstract away
Caption: from those physical States
Caption: and so let's look about let's talk about
Caption: the firing rate of a neuron not about
Caption: where all the ions and atoms are inside
Caption: the neuron let's abstract away and we
Caption: can say the neuron is firing at this
Caption: rate or that rate or this rate or that
Caption: weight it's usually a low rate or a high
Caption: rate
Caption: and the way the actual brain is
Caption: configured is is sort of wired so it's
Caption: functional specification is sort of like
Caption: the wiring of a computer circuits but
Caption: now it's the wiring of these neurons
Caption: so when we look at the brain we can
Caption: abstract over those physical States and
Caption: say this neuron here is firing or not
Caption: firing that's the input and then the
Caption: output has some sort of rule set up
Caption: because of the configuration to be
Caption: firing or not firing
Caption: so we're abstracting over the physical
Caption: states to get a functional description
Caption: in terms of firing rates of the neurons
Caption: now as I say we're looking at simplified
Caption: systems here we're not going to actually
Caption: look at complex systems so it's more
Caption: here just an input output we're not
Caption: looking at the complexities of all parts
Caption: of the brains just yet input and output
Caption: so we're in a particular input State we
Caption: go to an output state
Caption: um that's the symbolic oh sorry now look
Caption: at the symbolic level description the
Caption: symbolic level abstracts against above
Caption: those firing rates
Caption: so we don't care whether the firing
Caption: weight is 10 firings per second or five
Caption: firings per second if it's low that's
Caption: considered a zero now if it's very high
Caption: firing rate 20 30 50 100 firings per
Caption: second then we consider it a one
Caption: so we've got this on and off switch
Caption: again sort of like a bit but of course
Caption: neurons aren't bits they're very
Caption: unreliable they tend to work in
Caption: collections but for our abstraction here
Caption: just think of them as a single bit in
Caption: the brain
Caption: so the brain is configured to go from
Caption: symbolic state to symbolic State one
Caption: neuron turns on the other one turns off
Caption: because of their connections we can
Caption: ignore the details of all the firing and
Caption: just think about these symbolic States
Caption: the higher level description
Caption: so what about the semantic level well
Caption: now we can abstract again over those
Caption: symbolic States
Caption: and say hey down the bottom here we have
Caption: some inputs coming into the computer
Caption: maybe the import is something like you
Caption: see a cat or you hear a cat or you read
Caption: the word cat
Caption: you know lots of inputs lots of bits of
Caption: firing in your brain when you see a cat
Caption: that's the symbolic level seeing a cat
Caption: but up the top there we now have this
Caption: semantic State oh we're seeing a cat
Caption: we don't care whether it's this cat or
Caption: that cat or how we see the cat our brain
Caption: says we'll operate the same way no
Caption: matter what the different symbols are
Caption: and what we're going to do in this
Caption: simple case is announce the cat hey
Caption: there's the cat
Caption: but we also don't mind how we announced
Caption: the cat we could say cat or we could
Caption: write cat or we could shout cat
Caption: again input goes to Output we don't care
Caption: how the symbols work as long as it is
Caption: consistent with this semantic level
Caption: that's the semantic level description
Caption: of how the brain works see a cat you
Caption: announce a cat
Caption: just to make it clear on the left is our
Caption: input on the right is our output so we
Caption: see this cat we shout cat
Caption: but hey it could be a different cat it's
Caption: a different symbol but the same
Caption: semantics to us in our operation is that
Caption: it's just a cat so we'll say cat
Caption: and of course you could say cat in Sign
Caption: Language rather than saying cat it
Caption: doesn't matter there's different
Caption: symbolic operations are still equivalent
Caption: enough we're announcing there's a cat
Caption: and it could be a whole lot of different
Caption: cats and we could say things in
Caption: different ways and so forth so the
Caption: semantic level describes this higher
Caption: level you're seeing this concept of a
Caption: cat and you're reacting to it in a
Caption: certain way
Caption: so brains are computational systems they
Caption: have those three levels of descriptions
Caption: we talked about
Caption: uh before symbolic and so forth
Caption: the functional level the symbolic level
Caption: and the semantic level
Caption: and again these higher levels
Caption: abstractions are very useful
Caption: another example you see a fire
Caption: of course your action may be
Caption: scream out fire
Caption: but your conceptual semantic level could
Caption: be if we see danger then sort of panic
Caption: or do something like that so it doesn't
Caption: matter to us whether we see the smoke we
Caption: still May shout fire
Caption: and it doesn't matter whether we see we
Caption: shout fire we run away
Caption: okay we're doing something equivalent
Caption: action or dial 9-1-1 again at the
Caption: semantic level the behavior is described
Caption: as you see a fire or you hear fire or
Caption: whatever fire you panic or do something
Caption: so that's the semantic level description
Caption: of the brain
Caption: now if we say your brain is a
Caption: computational system and I hope you're
Caption: sort of convinced a bit there
Caption: the key thing to note here that it
Caption: explains everything but it also explains
Caption: nothing
Caption: what does it explain well it explains
Caption: what type of system the brain is it's a
Caption: computational system
Caption: that's really important it explained how
Caption: the human behave Behavior works we have
Caption: these different levels which abstract
Caption: over each other
Caption: and it provides an operational
Caption: definition of meaning
Caption: what is the meaning of the cat it's all
Caption: these different symbolic behaviors which
Caption: are equivalent to that we're abstracting
Caption: over the set of symbols
Caption: that's very important things it doesn't
Caption: explain it doesn't tell us the complete
Caption: wiring of the brain
Caption: still working that out trying to
Caption: understand the functional architecture
Caption: of the brain
Caption: and it doesn't explain how brains learn
Caption: which is a very important thing we'll
Caption: see soon
Caption: calculators don't learn but brains do
Caption: learn
Caption: so let's talk a bit about now how we
Caption: could maybe Implement a mind which is
Caption: the running program of a brain and there
Caption: are two different approaches the
Caption: classical approach old-fashioned
Caption: approach which was classical AI you may
Caption: have heard of expert systems these were
Caption: symbol systems they worked with symbols
Caption: like cat and dog and produced responses
Caption: like say hello or whatever
Caption: and now these new connectionist ones or
Caption: neural network approaches these were
Caption: different they were sort of lower level
Caption: I want to explain how they differ in
Caption: terms of this computational model
Caption: so first of all we said that a classical
Caption: digital computer and a brain are both
Caption: computational systems they both have
Caption: three different levels symbolic and
Caption: semantic they're similar in that way but
Caption: how are they different a classical
Caption: digital computer
Caption: the difference is this when we program a
Caption: classical digital computer we program at
Caption: the symbolic level
Caption: so the computer wiring is set up for us
Caption: and we program by saying here comes the
Caption: symbolic the symbols and the rules which
Caption: will say how those symbol change which
Caption: is your code
Caption: but the mind doesn't have a program at
Caption: the symbol level
Caption: is the only program that the functional
Caption: level the wiring that the gene specified
Caption: so where do the symbols come from in the
Caption: brain they're actually learned
Caption: these symbols and the rules which say
Caption: how they move from one to the other your
Caption: behavior actually emerges as you learn
Caption: and watch the environment
Caption: and the semantics emerge as well
Caption: so the symbols emerge and the semantics
Caption: emerge
Caption: this raises a big question for me our
Caption: minds touring equivalent
Caption: we've have a look on the left hand side
Caption: and classical AI the symbols there will
Caption: match the symbols in a turing machine
Caption: yes it's like a turing machine
Caption: but on the right hand side when we start
Caption: off with a mind there are no symbols and
Caption: these symbols emerge and they're
Caption: continuously changing and the rules are
Caption: emerging and changing but a turing
Caption: machine says we have these particular
Caption: symbols and these rules
Caption: I claim that's not really a turing
Caption: machine equivalent because it's defining
Caption: and emerging symbols rather than having
Caption: them specified
Caption: but how do we actually
Caption: um well the similarities now between a
Caption: neural network type solution a
Caption: connectionist Ai and the mind when we
Caption: set up neural networks with AWS or your
Caption: own programming you're basically
Caption: specifying the functional level how
Caption: these artificial neurons are connected
Caption: and then it tries to learn so it learns
Caption: symbols I can recognize a cat and say
Caption: cat
Caption: so it's very similar to the Mind
Caption: specified at the functional level
Caption: now when we're trying to implement one
Caption: of these artificial neural networks at
Caption: the functional level how can we
Caption: implement it well we could make our own
Caption: neurons but we tend to like to use a
Caption: classical computer to implement a neural
Caption: network and run it how does that work
Caption: this shows you how what actually happens
Caption: here what actually happens we use a
Caption: classical computer program a symbolic
Caption: system
Caption: so you write some code but the code you
Caption: write the symbols in your program are
Caption: not equivalent to the symbols in the
Caption: mind or the connection of system
Caption: the symbols you use in your program
Caption: match the functional level
Caption: of the connection of system so you're
Caption: using your symbols to say specify the
Caption: firing rate of the neurons not the
Caption: symbols themselves
Caption: so we're using symbols at a different
Caption: level that's why they're not equivalent
Caption: so we can Implement these connection
Caption: systems in classical AI symbol systems
Caption: but we're implementing them by
Caption: implementing their functional level
Caption: okay so this is what the conclusion of
Caption: my sort of research was my PhD and so
Caption: forth there are two different types of
Caption: computation
Caption: there's what I call discrete computation
Caption: this is where you specify in your
Caption: program everything up to the symbol
Caption: level so you write the program in terms
Caption: of symbols to Define some semantic level
Caption: you're writing some calculator code to
Caption: make a calculator Implement mathematics
Caption: discrete because the rules are chunky if
Caption: this then that the symbols are precise
Caption: and static
Caption: I call it discrete computation
Caption: the brain however as I've tried to imply
Caption: to you here is different I call it
Caption: continuous computation because again
Caption: it's only specify that the physical and
Caption: the functional level
Caption: the symbols and the semantics emerge as
Caption: a result of learning I'm trying to show
Caption: you there the wiggly symbols rather than
Caption: square boxes preset values the symbols
Caption: emerge and your definition or
Caption: understanding or operational Behavior
Caption: with regards to cats change as you learn
Caption: about cats and you see more cats your
Caption: brain always changes and the phys and
Caption: the symbols and the rules are in
Caption: continuous Dynamic flux in evolving
Caption: continuously so continuous computational
Caption: systems
Caption: so there we go
Caption: um I hope I've shown you or given you an
Caption: idea
Caption: that I'm a computer a computational
Caption: system and you are too
Caption: but to be more precise about this
Caption: um I'm a continuous computational system
Caption: and you are too so we're not like a
Caption: classical computer program with symbols
Caption: where I could computate a continuous
Caption: computational system with emerging
Caption: symbols and emerging rules and emerging
Caption: semantics
Caption: and of course the learning has to be
Caption: good to ensure we actually emerge and
Caption: learn things properly
Caption: okay so um that leads us to the big
Caption: question now what is I unless we can get
Caption: some audience participation in this one
Caption: so what is I well what are we there's a
Caption: lot of things that people talk about
Caption: when they talk about I
Caption: they talk about
Caption: um awareness
Caption: self-awareness free will
Caption: qualia if you don't know what that means
Caption: we'll explain it in a second and
Caption: consciousness of course
Caption: these are the big questions the
Caption: Consciousness one is called a CLM career
Caption: limiting move if you start to research
Caption: in Consciousness then your chances of
Caption: success and getting a good promotion and
Caption: so forth are very low
Caption: although becoming more popular these
Caption: days people doing a lot of research in
Caption: it so what do all these mean in
Caption: particular with regards to computational
Caption: systems
Caption: the first one awareness I think is quite
Caption: easy if you think about it
Caption: computationally
Caption: if you're aware of something say in your
Caption: environment
Caption: it basically means you show consistent
Caption: and appropriate behavior with respect to
Caption: perceptions of it
Caption: so for example if I'm aware of this
Caption: microphone I know not to touch it and I
Caption: know if I need to touch it my symbols
Caption: are working properly in a nice
Caption: semantically consistent way but if I
Caption: aren't aware of that microphone and I
Caption: bump it
Caption: I haven't been aware of it my system
Caption: symbols and so forth wasn't aware of
Caption: that
Caption: so my behavior to it wasn't appropriate
Caption: or successful in terms of what I was
Caption: doing
Caption: similar with seeing objects other
Caption: objects in the world
Caption: so awareness is about really having some
Caption: computational semantics which are
Caption: appropriate for the things you're trying
Caption: to be aware of are these three levels
Caption: there
Caption: now there's a classic example of where
Caption: this goes wrong there's a famous book
Caption: and research says the man who mistook
Caption: his wife for a hat he had a brain
Caption: disorder when he thought his wife's head
Caption: was a hat and was trying to put it on
Caption: very sad of course
Caption: but I hope you see what this means it
Caption: means it hasn't got the right symbols
Caption: and the right semantics for the hat so
Caption: the behavior is inappropriate
Caption: so it's failed so he hasn't really got
Caption: this awareness of a hat for what it
Caption: really is it hasn't got the
Caption: computational levels set up and working
Caption: correctly
Caption: true story you can read about that a
Caption: book by Oliver Oliver Sacks
Caption: what about self-awareness
Caption: well it's the same sort of thing but as
Caption: you go through life of course you see
Caption: your body with you it's all around there
Caption: and you start to behave consistently
Caption: with regards to your body
Caption: so you're aware of yourself being with
Caption: you all the time
Caption: self-awareness is consistent and
Caption: appropriate behavior with respect to
Caption: internal and external perceptions of
Caption: yourself so I see this thing here and
Caption: I'm set up correctly I've learned
Caption: correctly this is my hand it's not
Caption: someone else's hand right and I know I
Caption: can control it and do things with it
Caption: as I mentioned here it's not just
Caption: external stuff when you talk externally
Caption: you can hear yourself but also we have
Caption: this Loop going on in our head where we
Caption: can actually hear ourself we can talk
Caption: internally our mental dialogue this is
Caption: an example of a computational system as
Caption: well are you responding to your thoughts
Caption: appropriately with new thoughts and so
Caption: forth
Caption: so again computational awareness of your
Caption: environment and awareness of yourself
Caption: self-awareness I think they're not too
Caption: hard
Caption: when it gets more difficult or a bit
Caption: more difficult is free will
Caption: okay so everyone says what is Free Will
Caption: and whatever and they have all these
Caption: ideas and we need some soul or Spirit to
Caption: make us be able to make decisions
Caption: when I come down to it I think it's
Caption: pretty easy
Caption: what is free will
Caption: Free Will is making decisions and taking
Caption: actions based upon your current inputs
Caption: and your past experience
Caption: okay what else could it be
Caption: all right so you're making a sin you ask
Caption: me now what do you want for lunch lamb
Caption: or fish something's happening in my
Caption: brain based upon the inputs you gave me
Caption: and the experience I have some processes
Caption: going along to actually produce a result
Caption: I want fish
Caption: okay that's what free will is we're
Caption: making again it's a mechanical
Caption: mechanical biological machine making a
Caption: decision nothing fancy there
Caption: now it does mean somewhat that we're
Caption: deterministic which people all don't
Caption: feel I can't make my own decisions or
Caption: how do you make your decisions you make
Caption: them based on current inputs and your
Caption: past experience what else could you want
Caption: and don't worry even though it is
Caption: deterministic there's lots of
Caption: non-linearity in the system lots of
Caption: noise and Quantum indeterminacy you
Caption: could never predict what someone's going
Caption: to say or do
Caption: at that sort of level
Caption: so free will I think is also not
Caption: difficult
Caption: where things get very difficult
Caption: is when we talk about qualia
Caption: I don't know if you've heard about
Caption: qualia but it's the philosophical
Caption: content uh philosophical concept of
Caption: what's it like to
Caption: so we can behave consistently with
Caption: respect to things there's a certain
Caption: difference when you feel what it's like
Caption: to do something or see something
Caption: that's what I want to talk about now
Caption: we're going to talk about what's it like
Caption: to feel pain
Caption: what's it like to see and what's it like
Caption: to see red
Caption: and we'll try and see no pun intended
Caption: whether these things relate to the
Caption: computational approach we've looked at
Caption: for the human mind
Caption: so this is where we have to ask the
Caption: audio of the control to please lock the
Caption: doors we can do some experiment with
Caption: pain and we ask any are there any
Caption: volunteers here who want to experience
Caption: some pain
Caption: no volunteers so everyone can do it
Caption: all right so I promise some pain so get
Caption: ready
Caption: what I want you to do please get your
Caption: arms all limbered up get your arms free
Caption: put your phones down
Caption: I want you to pinch yourself on your arm
Caption: somewhere
Caption: pinch very hard not too hard don't make
Caption: some damage but so you can feel it see
Caption: that word there feel it
Caption: okay so you pinched your arm what
Caption: happened then
Caption: the question is where is the pain you
Caption: felt something pain but where is the
Caption: pain and most of the time you say oh
Caption: yeah it's in my arm I can feel me
Caption: pinching there
Caption: but remember what's happening here all
Caption: that's happening is there's a detector
Caption: there which is sending an electrical
Caption: signal up to your brain so when it gets
Caption: to your brain it's just a on or off
Caption: there's no pain in that signal
Caption: so where does the pain come from
Caption: it's not in your arm
Caption: the pain is in your mind
Caption: your mind is constructing this pain
Caption: for a good reason of course because
Caption: maybe you're got a knife on your arm or
Caption: you're pinching too hard or sofa that
Caption: wants to stop you
Caption: but you're feeling this pain
Caption: so pain is constructed in the mind quite
Caption: interesting to think about all right
Caption: another expect experiment what does it
Caption: feel like to see red or what does red
Caption: feel like
Caption: so the question here is to look at
Caption: something red
Caption: I don't know if you can see something
Caption: red around anyone got some red on if not
Caption: we can look at this
Caption: so look at this Red Dot and think what
Caption: is it it feels like something to look at
Caption: Red doesn't it feels like red
Caption: what does that mean
Caption: remember what's happening here it's just
Caption: electrical signals in your brain but
Caption: somehow your brain is constructing this
Caption: thing that it feels like red
Caption: this is a big puzzle this is the qualia
Caption: pubble puzzle what does it mean to feel
Caption: like or to see red
Caption: now a lot of the answers possible
Caption: answers to this but another thing here
Caption: and my hypothesis is when you're sitting
Caption: back and you're looking at red
Caption: what you're actually doing is behaving
Caption: in a way consistent with all the states
Caption: of different Reds and you're giving that
Caption: a label doesn't matter whether it's
Caption: light red or dark red or this shade of
Caption: red your semantics are this is red
Caption: so you're identifying it as red and
Caption: you're saying I'm feeling red when I'm
Caption: looking at that
Caption: again it comes to this computational
Caption: approach to different levels up to
Caption: semantics it doesn't matter what the
Caption: symbol is different types of red the
Caption: semantics it's red and you're responding
Caption: to the fact yes I'm seeing red it's a
Caption: red thing and it feels like red
Caption: not totally convincing that I don't know
Caption: if you don't believe me on that I'm not
Caption: totally convinced yet but that's the the
Caption: feeling I have
Caption: gets a bit weirder what about black when
Caption: you close when you um don't see anything
Caption: it looks black but why does it look why
Caption: does it feel black
Caption: why could it be white
Caption: you know what what defines something as
Caption: white or you say what's because there's
Caption: lots of light but we're looking at it we
Caption: see it's white but what why couldn't we
Caption: see it as black
Caption: it's almost arbitrary whether you have
Caption: white or black
Caption: when we feel it to be white or black but
Caption: of course we need something to be able
Caption: to distinguish them so these are what
Caption: we've basically got
Caption: I think you could swap them around and
Caption: everything would still work fine it
Caption: would be a sort of negative color system
Caption: rather than a positive color system
Caption: so this brings us to the last little
Caption: experiment
Caption: what it feels like to see
Caption: and this experiment is important
Caption: please close your eyes
Caption: when closing their eyes and hopefully
Caption: you can't see anything it's pretty dark
Caption: although I may see some white spots and
Caption: so forth
Caption: and at the count of three I want you to
Caption: open your eyes
Caption: one two three
Caption: now you're seeing here right you're
Caption: experiencing you can feel what it looks
Caption: like to see
Caption: now the really important Point here is
Caption: your behavior could be consistent with
Caption: seeing I could notice this microphones
Caption: here and act appropriately but it's
Caption: almost like a step up to say yes I'm
Caption: behaving consistently but it actually
Caption: feels like something to see
Caption: and that's the tricky point about this
Caption: quality it feels more like more than
Caption: just behaving consistently
Caption: of course when you think about it you go
Caption: from black to seeing something
Caption: really you know about what happens in
Caption: there we ask the question what does it
Caption: mean to see everyone will give you a
Caption: description of yes we have the the image
Caption: coming through the up the um the lenses
Caption: in the eyes it's sort of inverted it
Caption: goes into the back of the brain
Caption: that's just like the wire coming up your
Caption: arm it's not really important because at
Caption: the end it's just electrical signals at
Caption: the back of your brain how does your
Caption: brain turn those electrical signal tools
Caption: into this experience that I feel like
Caption: I'm seeing things it's more than just
Caption: behaving consistently so we have this
Caption: but how do we get the fact that yes I'm
Caption: seeing something
Caption: similarly we can look at bats bats are a
Caption: bit different of course they don't look
Caption: with a normal sight they use
Caption: echolocation
Caption: so what's it like to see as a bat
Caption: we don't really know is it like that or
Caption: do they see it more like we'd guess you
Caption: know closer things are brighter
Caption: a different way of perceiving the world
Caption: what does it feel like to be in Bat is a
Caption: question that philosophers often ask
Caption: okay the last one here is tricking its
Caption: Consciousness and I'm running out of
Caption: time
Caption: we've mentioned all these things so
Caption: Consciousness is often involved with all
Caption: of these but there's something more than
Caption: just behaving consistently
Caption: um people suggest that Consciousness
Caption: could live in the microtubules of the
Caption: neurons these very small things inside
Caption: the neurons I think that's just putting
Caption: the problem down a level
Caption: others think that it could be due to
Caption: with quantum mechanics we need quantum
Caption: mechanics to be conscious
Caption: I think that's just again putting the
Caption: issue away we know we're a biological
Caption: system the Consciousness didn't come in
Caption: there because of quantum mechanics it
Caption: came through evolution
Caption: and the last one says well maybe the
Caption: world consists of space and time yes we
Caption: agree
Caption: energy and matter yes that's the
Caption: universe but now maybe there's a third
Caption: thing called consciousness and a lot of
Caption: physicists now are believing this
Caption: because they couldn't see other ways of
Caption: explaining consciousness
Caption: but again to me when I look at the
Caption: evolution of the species I think where
Caption: does Consciousness come in it wasn't
Caption: some time that the Universe jumped into
Caption: our head and made us conscious it's more
Caption: about the physical architecture and
Caption: function of the brain
Caption: so the reason I put here a computational
Caption: theory of Consciousness basically it's
Caption: got to do with self-awareness
Caption: so you act behind consistently with
Caption: regards to your States like seeing red
Caption: or seeing or pain I think you can get
Caption: most of it out of that but maybe not all
Caption: the last thing here to look at is how do
Caption: we make robots conscious that's the
Caption: whole idea we want to make AI systems we
Caption: can make computational AI systems but
Caption: how can we make a robot that actually
Caption: has Consciousness now these are robots
Caption: with cameras like eyes they can see and
Caption: behave consistently but do they actually
Caption: feel like they're looking as we do
Caption: um so here's our robot we can make that
Caption: robot work well when it turns its
Caption: cameras on it can avoid the cars and
Caption: this sort of stuff but will the robot
Caption: say that it actually can feel that it's
Caption: seeing things
Caption: how can we make that actually happen
Caption: and again I think basically we use this
Caption: computational Theory we design our
Caption: robots not just to behave consistently
Caption: with regards to the inputs and so forth
Caption: but to be a self-aware of the fact that
Caption: they are seeing they can see red and
Caption: they can feel pain and then our Behavior
Caption: becomes consistent with us actually
Caption: feeling like we're seeing so I say yes I
Caption: can see I can see things if I can feel
Caption: it
Caption: so basically again taking the
Caption: computational approach but I won't go
Caption: into that haven't got time
Caption: that's about um all the I'll leave a
Caption: second or two for um I'll just jump
Caption: through this because I haven't got time
Caption: to do that
Caption: questions just to summarize I didn't
Caption: want to do this
Caption: um
Caption: sorry to summarize what we've seen and
Caption: maybe you agree or don't agree I've
Caption: explained what a computational system is
Caption: a system that allows three levels of
Caption: description had symbols that represent
Caption: things and the maintained semantics
Caption: under transformations
Caption: I've talked about Von neume computers
Caption: our discrete computational systems and
Caption: the brain and connection of systems are
Caption: more like continuous computational
Caption: systems
Caption: I've talked that being a computational
Caption: system allows us to operationalize
Caption: explain things like awareness
Caption: self-awareness and possibly qualia and
Caption: Consciousness as this consistent level
Caption: of behavior
Caption: but importantly if any of you are
Caption: working in robotics or AI the real
Caption: question is how can we make robots truly
Caption: human-like will need to make them
Caption: computational systems but also aware
Caption: self-aware and have feelings and
Caption: consciousness
Caption: so we can already already make lots of
Caption: robots that are very smart and can do
Caption: things
Caption: but can we make robots that actually
Caption: feel pain
Caption: maybe that's useful in an evolutionary
Caption: approach or a programming approach so
Caption: it's aware of the fact that it's got a
Caption: knife in its leg or something like this
Caption: can we make robots that can actually see
Caption: and be aware of seeing not just behave
Caption: consistently with what it means to see
Caption: and I had to be trouble finding an image
Caption: but can we make robots that are happy
Caption: and joyful
Caption: okay not many robot photos show them
Caption: being happy we haven't tried to make
Caption: them feel like they're happy
Caption: so all right that's about all there so I
Caption: have any questions or quick questions a
Caption: lot of stuff but uh hopefully it
Caption: provided some explanation of what it
Caption: means to see and to be computational yep
Caption: okay first question
Caption: so just on your first point
Caption: um
Caption: you said that you there might be an
Caption: advantage for having a AI system
Caption: actually fill Consciousness right but is
Caption: there really any advantage to doing that
Caption: like a very good question very good
Caption: question is there any advantage to
Caption: actually feeling something rather than
Caption: just behaving consistently you know we
Caption: could if someone puts a knife in our leg
Caption: we could behave consistently and pull it
Caption: out and not even be aware of it in fact
Caption: when you're sleepwalking people
Caption: sleepwalk and they do eating and
Caption: everything when they're asleep so
Caption: they're not conscious but they're doing
Caption: all they're behaving consistently
Caption: so it's a really good question and I
Caption: believe there must be some evolutionary
Caption: advantage to know you're in in pain
Caption: maybe even to learn from that experience
Caption: so it's not just behaving consistently
Caption: you're aware of the fact yes that was
Caption: pain maybe I can change my behavior and
Caption: so forth so evolutionary I think why are
Caption: they here and probably because it makes
Caption: us a fitter species to survive
Caption: I think the only difference you'd see is
Caption: that
Caption: um the AIA system would write a
Caption: Wikipedia page about Columbia I think
Caption: that's the only difference that would
Caption: see provided that I didn't have that
Caption: could be true but but we have a lot of
Caption: feelings you know we feel what it's like
Caption: to see we feel like it's what it's like
Caption: to be read we feel pain why not if we
Caption: didn't feel pain we could just do the
Caption: stuff without feeling it would that be
Caption: okay I think there's something to that
Caption: feeling pain you really learn something
Caption: from it as I say it's more like it's a
Caption: higher level abstraction doesn't matter
Caption: what sort of pain it is we're just
Caption: learning to respond to pain but it's an
Caption: open question
Caption: just going to add that we are moving
Caption: into lunch so we have plenty of time for
Caption: questions I think I'm going to trespass
Caption: on Dr Ashley's time here and ask you to
Caption: stay but if you do did want to make a
Caption: move and grab your lunch now you'd be
Caption: very welcome to do so
Caption: um I see we have a question here
Caption: just quickly top down versus bottom up
Caption: AI
Caption: and host the development going along
Caption: that as well as with so top down is
Caption: probably that symbolic approach yes
Caption: right and I think It suffers from its
Caption: fragile you can write some rules but
Caption: they don't actually work in every case
Caption: so it breaks and doesn't work properly
Caption: that's what we found with expert systems
Caption: whereas bottom up when things emerge
Caption: they tend to be more stable and they can
Caption: handle things which aren't exactly what
Caption: you predicted so bottom up is definitely
Caption: the way to go and we see all the stuff
Caption: we're seeing from eBay Western and the
Caption: phones have neural networks now it's
Caption: emergent and learning these things what
Caption: about teaching an artificial intelligent
Caption: being ethics and morals
Caption: this where it comes back to I think a
Caption: bit more about language and words and
Caption: what do they mean and how what
Caption: consequences they have you know language
Caption: is just Behavior so I can say I'm moral
Caption: and I can say it 100 times doesn't mean
Caption: I'm going to behave morally right it
Caption: doesn't control our Behavior language is
Caption: just a behavior so but the
Caption: correlationship between that language
Caption: and the behavior and the consistency
Caption: between the two sure it but it doesn't
Caption: have to exist there are many criminals
Caption: who think of themselves as good people
Caption: and honest and they go and commit crimes
Caption: so it doesn't we're not we're not driven
Caption: by our logic we're driven by the
Caption: behavior we learn and experience and I
Caption: missed a section there on describing
Caption: complex Behavior just briefly I believe
Caption: we actually learn by just seeing
Caption: patterns and replaying those patterns
Caption: using very complex hierarchical
Caption: Association engine as I call it so we're
Caption: just behaving what we've seen and we
Caption: replay those behaviors over and over and
Caption: we look you know doing anything it's
Caption: basically just replaying behaviors in
Caption: certain contexts so language is that you
Caption: know I learned to say things and I
Caption: last question when you're a diverse
Caption: individuals out of my scope there out of
Caption: my scope we all got different brains
Caption: with different you know functions and in
Caption: different areas and different abilities
Caption: to abstract and different learning rates
Caption: so there's a wide variation and I would
Caption: call them all computational systems so
Caption: I'm sorry hey
Caption: um really good talk thank you I I agree
Caption: with you I think there's probably a lot
Caption: of scientific benefit to be gained by
Caption: potentially giving Consciousness and
Caption: certain other sort of like Memphis
Caption: School abilities for robots to be able
Caption: to to do but in the scientific Community
Caption: we're typically bounded by sets of rules
Caption: of what we not just what we can do but
Caption: what we should do so how do you feel you
Caption: know what the ethical Implement
Caption: implications might be of giving the
Caption: robot the ability to feel pain yeah it's
Caption: a good question it's a good question
Caption: um if you think of this as just machines
Caption: experiencing pain
Caption: we're just machines experiencing pain
Caption: robots are just machines experiencing
Caption: pain we know we've made a guess that
Caption: it's biologically or evolutionary
Caption: advantage to feel pain if we give down
Caption: ability then we put pain on them it's
Caption: the same as putting pain on a person so
Caption: you have to take a consideration of that
Caption: because it's really innate that feeling
Caption: of pain is so deep and so strong in your
Caption: system that is sort of a part of you so
Caption: if you make pain or hurt a robot then
Caption: the same sort of thing so you'd be
Caption: responsible for it I guess
Caption: lots of good questions thank you I was
Caption: wondering uh where your feedback would
Caption: be on the um call out the the Google AI
Caption: may or may not be Sentinel yeah sure
Caption: what are your thoughts on that so I
Caption: don't know anything about the project
Caption: particularly that one they were talking
Caption: about but it's mainly what they're doing
Caption: they're training these uh systems on
Caption: large amounts of text
Caption: to respond with text so they get they
Caption: learn lots of context which is what I
Caption: was going to explain in the extra slides
Caption: there your cortex is basically a
Caption: hierarchical context engine so it learns
Caption: if you're in this context in this
Caption: context in this state you say this
Caption: and this is what they did they put lots
Caption: of training on if you see this sentence
Caption: you say this sentence and you have huge
Caption: millions and millions of training but
Caption: the problem there again is they're
Caption: working at that symbolic level
Caption: all right the the saving Graces they
Caption: don't have if then rules there's
Caption: statistics between the symbols if you
Caption: see this symbol then statistically this
Caption: one's more likely than this one so
Caption: they're sort of halfway between the
Caption: continuous and the discrete they're sort
Caption: of halfway there the symbols are fixed
Caption: but they're um rules are sort of
Caption: continuous and change with learning
Caption: so whether it's conscious or not
Caption: again I guess we'd come back to
Caption: Consciousness again is different than
Caption: this being computational I think it
Caption: would be a computational system it
Caption: understands when you say it's raining oh
Caption: yes I'll take my umbrella so it's
Caption: behaving consistently at a symbolic
Caption: level so it understands the semantics of
Caption: raining an umbrella
Caption: but the issue there and this is just
Caption: reminded we had an extra slide is that
Caption: AI system is not grounded and what I
Caption: mean by grounded is we actually
Caption: experience rain and see rain it's just
Caption: getting text in and text out so it
Caption: really doesn't know what rain is it's
Caption: just saying what it needs to say to
Caption: respond correctly to that rain
Caption: so I think it's understands rain in its
Caption: concept of rain defined by its semantics
Caption: and symbols but it has it's not grounded
Caption: like a real robot would be and can
Caption: experience rain so I think they're
Caption: computational but I wouldn't go so far
Caption: as to say they're aware or self-aware or
Caption: conscious it's just this compute the
Caption: semantics are there because we've
Caption: learned so much but I wouldn't call it
Caption: sentient
Caption: are you comfortable for some more
Caption: questions happy too excellent people
Caption: have some questions
Caption: um with the different levels of um
Caption: abstraction of um physical functional
Caption: Etc do do you think the different levels
Caption: have any irreducible emotion Properties
Caption: or they're just useful abstractions in
Caption: each level
Caption: I'm not really sure I don't have an
Caption: answer to that
Caption: um
Caption: irreducible properties now we know the
Caption: symbolic level needs to represent
Caption: uh it's it's just the abstraction is so
Caption: important I think that's the most
Caption: important aspect of this and I sort of
Caption: alluded to it you know I had a question
Caption: I use when I'm trying to explain
Caption: abstraction to people how useful it is
Caption: if I told you there are 10 billion atoms
Caption: here and this is how they're all
Caption: configured I gave you the exact location
Caption: and I said that's the car I want go and
Caption: buy it
Caption: you wouldn't even be able to tell what
Caption: color the car is let alone what model
Caption: and what engine so although you have all
Caption: the detail of the physical system every
Caption: little specific detail you're losing
Caption: what you get at the higher level so
Caption: ignoring the detail can actually be more
Caption: useful than the lower level so that's
Caption: what we get from the abstractions
Caption: having that symbolic level says we can
Caption: ignore the functional States and writing
Caption: the symbols so we get command a
Caption: consistent semantics is the benefit but
Caption: I don't know of any irreducible
Caption: properties of these different levels
Caption: particularly so it's a limitation of
Caption: like the human mind or the processing as
Caption: opposed to a reality itself it's
Caption: yeah it's a human the human brain is
Caption: learning symbols and learning semantics
Caption: and it's wired at a neural level so that
Caption: eventually learns something which is
Caption: consistent and allows us to survive in
Caption: the world you know you could be
Caption: programmed wrong so you then come out
Caption: with wrong semantics and you're bumping
Caption: into everything and you can't talk and
Caption: you get your wife and try to put it on
Caption: your head that wouldn't work but luckily
Caption: our learning tends to end us up with a
Caption: semantic system that is useful that's
Caption: what evolution has given us and that's
Caption: what AI is trying to do build systems
Caption: that learn from experiences and become
Caption: useful
Caption: thank you very much for your attention
Caption: thank you happy to answer any other
Caption: questions if you want but thank you
Caption: Hannah great talk thank you so much